ACP-3963: Algolia personalization. (#2895)
spryker/spryker-docs: docs/pbc/all/search/202410.0/base-shop/third-party-integrations/algolia/algolia-personalization.md

---
title: Algolia Personalization
description: Find out how you can enable Algolia personalization in your Spryker shop
last_updated: Nov 24, 2024
template: howto-guide-template
---

{% info_block infoBox "Info" %}

Default Spryker installation supports Algolia personalization only for YVES frontend.
If you plan to use Algolia personalization in headless frontend or mobile application follow [this guide](/docs/pbc/all/search/{{page.version}}/base-shop/third-party-integrations/algolia/algolia-personalization-headless.html). 

This feature also enables other Algolia premium features:

- Personalization
- Dynamic Re-Ranking
- Query Categorization
- Search analytics
- Revenue analytics

> - A/B Testing

Reviewer: `This feature` means `Algolia Personalization` I assume `Personalization` can be removed from this list.

1. Update project config:
```php
// config_default.php

$config[KernelAppConstants::TENANT_IDENTIFIER]
    //..   
    = getenv('SPRYKER_TENANT_IDENTIFIER') ?: '';
```

2. Enable new widget, that will trigger events for user actions and send them to [Algolia Insights](https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/sending-events/getting-started/): 
```php
// src/Pyz/Yves/ShopApplication/ShopApplicationDependencyProvider.php

class ShopApplicationDependencyProvider extends SprykerShopApplicationDependencyProvider
{

    protected function getGlobalWidgets(): array
    {
        return [
            //...
            SprykerShop\Yves\TraceableEventWidget\Widget\TraceableEventWidget::class
        ];
}
```

3. Enabled the plugin that will generate an anonymous token for guest users in the session:
```php
// src/Pyz/Yves/EventDispatcher/EventDispatcherDependencyProvider.php

class EventDispatcherDependencyProvider extends SprykerEventDispatcherDependencyProvider
{

    protected function getEventDispatcherPlugins(): array
    {
        return [
            //...
            new Spryker\Yves\Customer\Plugin\EventDispatcher\AnonymousIdSessionAssignEventDispatcherPlugin(),
        ];
}
```

> 4. Build a new javascript assets for Yves `npm ci && npm run yves` or `console frontend:project:install-dependencies && console frontend:yves:build`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Build the JavaScript assets for Yves `npm ci && npm run yves` or `console frontend:project:install-dependencies && console frontend:yves:build`.
```

>    Usually it's executed automatically during Spryker Cloud deployment pipeline. But it's better to check this command on local development environment first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Usually, it's executed automatically during the Spryker Cloud deployment pipeline. But it's better to check this command on the local development environment first.
```

5. Check your Yves's compatibility with the feature:

> In case of customizations your codebase could have updated Yves templates on project level (src/Pyz/Yves/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of customizations, your codebase could have updated Yves templates on the project level (src/Pyz/Yves/).
```

It could be a reason that some events won't be triggered or triggered with incorrect data.

// TODO (@matweew/@supproduction): updated after the implementation of debugger.
`TraceableEventWidgetConfig::getIsDebugEnabled()` set to `true`.
  
* Run the project locally or deploy to testing environment.
* Open your Shop Storefront home page.
* Open browser's development console and check "Preserve log" in the settings.

Test the correctness of data in the triggered events in the browser console:
* Open Home page

>   * (if applicable) Click on a product - `PRODUCT_CLICK`

Reviewer: When are those events applicable?

Author: I mean if applicable for the project's home page (if they products are on the home page). Not clear?

  * (if applicable) Click on a product add to cart button - `ADD_TO_CART`

> * Open product detail page (PDP), you should see events for actions: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Open the product detail page (PDP), you should see events for the actions: 
```

```php
// src/Pyz/Yves/ShopApplication/ShopApplicationDependencyProvider.php

class ShopApplicationDependencyProvider extends SprykerShopApplicationDependencyProvider
{

    protected function getGlobalWidgets(): array
    {
        return [
            //...
            SprykerShop\Yves\TraceableEventWidget\Widget\TraceableEventWidget::class
        ];
}
```

3. Enabled the plugin that will generate an anonymous token for guest users in the session:
```php
// src/Pyz/Yves/EventDispatcher/EventDispatcherDependencyProvider.php

class EventDispatcherDependencyProvider extends SprykerEventDispatcherDependencyProvider
{

    protected function getEventDispatcherPlugins(): array
    {
        return [
            //...
            new Spryker\Yves\Customer\Plugin\EventDispatcher\AnonymousIdSessionAssignEventDispatcherPlugin(),
        ];
}
```

4. Build the JavaScript assets for Yves `npm ci && npm run yves` or `console frontend:project:install-dependencies && console frontend:yves:build`.
   Usually, it's executed automatically during the Spryker Cloud deployment pipeline. But it's better to check this command on the local development environment first.
   

>   Check that required modulule`npm list search-insights` if you have `└── (empty)` result it means that you have to install `search-insights` manually `npm i search-insights`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Check that required dependency is installed `npm list search-insights` if you have `└── (empty)` result it means that you have to install `search-insights` manually `npm i search-insights`.
```

```php
// src/Pyz/Yves/ShopApplication/ShopApplicationDependencyProvider.php

class ShopApplicationDependencyProvider extends SprykerShopApplicationDependencyProvider
{

    protected function getGlobalWidgets(): array
    {
        return [
            //...
            SprykerShop\Yves\TraceableEventWidget\Widget\TraceableEventWidget::class
        ];
}
```

3. Enabled the plugin that generates an anonymous token for guest users in the session:
```php
// src/Pyz/Yves/EventDispatcher/EventDispatcherDependencyProvider.php

class EventDispatcherDependencyProvider extends SprykerEventDispatcherDependencyProvider
{

    protected function getEventDispatcherPlugins(): array
    {
        return [
            //...
            new Spryker\Yves\Customer\Plugin\EventDispatcher\AnonymousIdSessionAssignEventDispatcherPlugin(),
        ];
}
```

4. Build JavaScript assets for Yves using one of the following commands:
```bash
npm ci && npm run yves
```

```bash
console frontend:project:install-dependencies && console frontend:yves:build
```

> 5. Check that required dependency is installed:
> ```bash
> npm list search-insights
> ```
> 
> 6. If the previous command returned `└── (empty)`, install `search-insights` manually:
> ```bash
> npm i search-insights`.
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Install required `search-insights` dependency:
```bash
npm i search-insights`.
```
```

{

    protected function getGlobalWidgets(): array
    {
        return [
            //...
            SprykerShop\Yves\TraceableEventWidget\Widget\TraceableEventWidget::class
        ];
}
```

3. Enabled the plugin that generates an anonymous token for guest users in the session:
```php
// src/Pyz/Yves/EventDispatcher/EventDispatcherDependencyProvider.php

class EventDispatcherDependencyProvider extends SprykerEventDispatcherDependencyProvider
{

    protected function getEventDispatcherPlugins(): array
    {
        return [
            //...
            new Spryker\Yves\Customer\Plugin\EventDispatcher\AnonymousIdSessionAssignEventDispatcherPlugin(),
        ];
}
```

4. Build JavaScript assets for Yves using one of the following commands:
```bash
npm ci && npm run yves
```

```bash
console frontend:project:install-dependencies && console frontend:yves:build
```

5. Install required `search-insights` dependency:
```bash
npm i search-insights`.

### Check your Yves's compatibility with new functionality

In case of customizations, your codebase could have updated Yves templates on the project level (`src/Pyz/Yves/`).

> It could be a reason that some events won't be triggered or triggered with incorrect data.

Reviewer 3: What do I need to do in this case?

Author: This paragraph is part of "Check your Yves's compatibility with new functionality", you need to follow the steps from the next sub-sections
- Run the project
- Check triggered events and their payload

#### Run the project
1. Set `TraceableEventWidgetConfig::isDebugEnabled()` set to `true`.  
2. Run the project locally or deploy to testing environment.
3. Open your Shop Storefront home page.
4. Open browser's development console and check "Preserve log" in the settings.

#### Check triggered events and their payload

> When debug mode is enabled, you can see event logs in the console to help with inspection.

Reviewer 3: How do we know it's enabled? Do I need to enable it?

Author: see the previous paragraph with the title "Run the project", Set TraceableEventWidgetConfig::isDebugEnabled() set to true.

Monitor the browser's console and execute following cases:
* Open the home page.
  * If the home page has products, click on a product - `PRODUCT_CLICK`.
  * If the home page has the add to cart button, click on it - `ADD_TO_CART`
* Open a product's details page, you should see events for the actions:
  * `PAGE_LOAD` with the product's SKU.

>   * `ADD_TO_CART` with the product's SKU, currency, price and quantity, when user clicks **Add to cart**.

Reviewer 3: Do I need to click Add to cart to see this event?

  * `ADD_TO_SHOPPING_LIST` with product SKU when user clicks **Add to shopping list**.
  * `ADD_TO_WISHLIST` with product SKU when user clicks **Add to wishlist**.
* Open a **Category** or **Search Results** page:
  * `QueryID` should be present in the event payload on this page type.

>   * `PAGE_LOAD` with displayed products SKUs and displayed search filters.

Reviewer 3: What should happen to this `PAGE_LOAD`?

Author: yes

  * `PRODUCT_CLICK` when user clicks on results.
  * `ADD_TO_CART` with product SKU, currency and price, when user clicks Add to cart from the catalog page.
  * `FILTER_CLICK` with filters list, when user clicks any filter from the filter section.
* Open Cart page
  * (if applicable) add a new product from add to cart widget `ADD_TO_CART`
  * (if applicable) save cart items to a shopping list `ADD_TO_SHOPPING_LIST`
* Open Quick Order page
  * (if applicable) add a new product from add to cart widget `ADD_TO_CART`
  * (if applicable) save cart items to a shopping list `ADD_TO_SHOPPING_LIST`
* Open Order Success page
  * `PAGE_LOAD` with currency, order total, skus, prices, quantities  of purchased products.

> To view a full list of available events, refer to the `traceable-events-algolia` [Readme file](https://github.com/spryker-shop/traceable-event-widget/src/SprykerShop/Yves/TraceableEventWidget/Theme/default/components/molecules/traceable-events-algolia/README.md).

Reviewer 3: 404 on the link

#### Common Issues and Solutions

##### Prerequisites

> If you need to add, modify, or fix events at the project level, start with these two steps:

Reviewer 3: Would it be correct to say that most solutions in this section are related to adding, changing, or fixing events?

- Locate the page template or view that is used for the current page.
- Override the `{% raw %}{% block eventTracker %}{% endraw %}` block in your project’s template at the [project level](https://docs.spryker.com/docs/dg/dev/frontend-development/202410.0/yves/atomic-frontend/managing-components/overriding-components.html#create-component-folder-on-project-level).

> For comprehensive details about the **event configuration API**, visit the [traceable-events-orchestrator README](https://github.com/spryker-shop/traceable-event-widget/src/SprykerShop/Yves/TraceableEventWidget/Theme/default/components/molecules/traceable-events-orchestrator/README.md).

Reviewer 3: How is this related to this section?

                        /* event data configuration */
                    },
                ],
            },
        ]),
        data: events.data,
    } %}

    {{ parent() }}
{% raw %}{% endblock %}{% endraw %}

```

##### Issue: Incorrect Event Payload

You can view the event payload in the console under `Adapter Data:`. If the payload is incorrect, check the static and dynamic data configurations.

1. Static Data

Adjust static data in the `eventTracker` block as needed:

```twig
{% raw %}{% block eventTracker %}{% endraw %}
    {% raw %}{% set events = {{% endraw %}
        list: events.list,
        data: events.data | merge({
          existing_key_to_override: New Data,
          new_key: New Data,
        }),
    } %}

    {{ parent() }}
{% raw %}{% endblock %}{% endraw %}
```

2. Dynamic Data

For adding dynamic data, refer to the [API documentation](https://github.com/spryker-shop/traceable-event-widget/src/SprykerShop/Yves/TraceableEventWidget/Theme/default/components/molecules/traceable-events-orchestrator/README.md). Adjust the configuration as needed for specific triggers.

> ```twig

Reviewer 3: Add file path

Author: fixed the link for "API documentation". Did you mean this?

Reviewer 3: I'm referring to this twig file. Is this any particular file or just an example?

                            },
                        },
                    },
                },
            },
        ],
    }]),
    data: events.data,
} %}

{# Expected transformed data format in the console:
  {
      ...global data/event metadata,
      relatedProducts: {
          // Flattened data from the 'details' attribute
          name: VALUE, // The value taken from the 'name' selector or attribute
          price: 'static value', // The fixed 'price' value
          attributes: [VALUE, VALUE, VALUE, ...], // Array of values collected from elements matching '.attribute-selector'
          metadata: [
              {
                  brand: VALUE, // 'brand' data extracted from the '.metadata-row .product-brand' element
                  category: VALUE, // 'category' data from the '.metadata-row .product-category' element
              },
              {
                  brand: VALUE, // 'brand' data extracted from the '.metadata-row .product-brand' element
                  category: VALUE, // 'category' data from the '.metadata-row .product-category' element
              },
              ...
          ]
      }
  }
#}
```

> ##### Examples of the feature integration into Spryker demo shops

Reviewer 3: What do I need to do with this?

Author: you need to select a demoshop that your project used as starting point and check this PRs, it should help you to integrate events faster. So use it as the reference or guide

- [B2C Demo Shop](https://github.com/spryker-shop/b2c-demo-shop/pull/595/files)
- [B2C Marketplace Demo Shop](https://github.com/spryker-shop/b2c-demo-marketplace/pull/474/files)
- [B2B Demo Shop](https://github.com/spryker-shop/b2b-demo-shop/pull/542/files)
- [B2B Marketplace Demo Shop](https://github.com/spryker-shop/b2b-demo-marketplace/pull/490/files)

  

> ### Update website agreement text

Reviewer 3: Which section is this section related to? Updating Spryker Shop or issues?

Author: Updating Spryker Shop

Author: there is a difference between level of headers `###` (h3) or `####` (h4)

You should update the website agreement text and ask for user consent to have their interactions with the website tracked and sent to Algolia.
Something similar to

> > **User Data analytics**

Reviewer 3: Do you mean privacy policy?

Author: I took it from Vasilikiy's message

>
> To enhance your experience, we use data and analytics to understand how you interact with our site.
> By accepting, you allow us to capture anonymous events for personalization, analysis, and continuous improvement of your experience on our platform.

### Test it

1. Deploy to testing environment.
2. Make sure that Algolia is connected and configured in the Backoffice > Apps.

{% info_block warningBox "Make sure" %}

If you previously had ACP Algolia App connected and used, you will need to disconnect and connect it again with the same Algolia credentials in the ACP App Catalog.

> This action will update your Spryker shop config to be able to send events to Algolia.

Reviewer 3: This is confusing. Would I be able to install algolia personalization if I didn't have algolia connected and configured?  Would it even make sense to install personalization before installing algolia itself?

Author: This is for customers who have already used Algolia without personalization and then decided to enable also personalization. So they need to re-connect the app after these integration guide steps.

{% endinfo_block %}

3. Open Yves, act as a guest and logged-in user, do searches, filter results, open product pages after search, add products to cart, do order placement.

> 4. Go to [Algolia Dashboard](https://dashboard.algolia.com/) and open Events from Data Sources section - `https://dashboard.algolia.com/apps/$APP_ID$/events/debugger`.

Reviewer 3: The link is pointing towards the events>debugger section. Should i go there?

Author: the link has a placeholder APP_ID, so it's not a real link that can be used in the documentation, we can just remove it and write about where to find it in the Algolia 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/45f07263-d33e-4ece-a807-49207f1a5a90)

and your Algolia search indexes have products. 

## Update Spryker Shop

### Update Spryker packages

```bash
composer update --with-dependencies spryker/kernel-app spryker/search-http spryker/customer \
spryker-shop/cart-page spryker-shop/catalog-page spryker-shop/checkout-page spryker-shop/home-page spryker-shop/payment-page \
spryker-shop/product-detail-page spryker-shop/product-group-widget spryker-shop/product-review-widget \
spryker-shop/product-set-detail-page spryker-shop/quick-order-page spryker-shop/shop-ui
```

### Install new Spryker packages

```bash
composer install spryker-shop/traceable-event-widget
```

### Minimum package versions

```bash
spryker/kernel-app: ^1.2.0
spryker/search-http: ^0.5.0
spryker/customer: ^7.61.0
spryker-shop/cart-page: ^3.45.0
spryker-shop/catalog-page: ^1.28.0
spryker-shop/checkout-page: ^3.32.1
spryker-shop/home-page: ^1.2.0
spryker-shop/payment-page: ^1.5.0
spryker-shop/product-detail-page: ^3.22.1
spryker-shop/product-group-widget: ^1.10.1
spryker-shop/product-review-widget: ^1.16.1
spryker-shop/product-set-detail-page: ^1.11.0
spryker-shop/quick-order-page: ^4.10.0
spryker-shop/shop-ui: ^1.79.0

> spryker-shop/traceable-event-widget: ^1.0.1

Author: @vol4onok it can be merged with the command above `composer update --with-dependencies spryker/kernel-app:'^1.2.0' spryker/search-http:^0.5.0 ...`

Reviewer 4: I moved it

```php
// src/Pyz/Yves/ShopApplication/ShopApplicationDependencyProvider.php

class ShopApplicationDependencyProvider extends SprykerShopApplicationDependencyProvider
{

    protected function getGlobalWidgets(): array
    {
        return [
            //...
            SprykerShop\Yves\TraceableEventWidget\Widget\TraceableEventWidget::class
        ];
}
```

3. Enabled the plugin that generates an anonymous token for guest users in the session:
```php
// src/Pyz/Yves/EventDispatcher/EventDispatcherDependencyProvider.php

class EventDispatcherDependencyProvider extends SprykerEventDispatcherDependencyProvider
{

    protected function getEventDispatcherPlugins(): array
    {
        return [
            //...
            new Spryker\Yves\Customer\Plugin\EventDispatcher\AnonymousIdSessionAssignEventDispatcherPlugin(),
        ];
}
```

4. Build JavaScript assets for Yves using one of the following commands:
```bash
npm ci && npm run yves
```

```bash
console frontend:project:install-dependencies && console frontend:yves:build
```

> 5. Check that required dependency is installed:

Reviewer 3: Why not just instruct to install it?

Author: @supproduction ?

Reviewer 2: Changed
